Highs and welcome to the artificial intelligence master class I'm so excited to start this course and
start this journey with you because I have never worked on such a powerful AI of my entire life.
Indeed.
Through our previous courses we have built some very powerful ones but they were each time single models
and this time in this course we're going to build for the first time a hybrid intelligence system and
by hybrid intelligence system.
Here is what it means.
A hybrid model is a combination of different Emile's and you can imagine that the hybrid model we're
going to build in this course is going to be a combination of the state of the art Emile's meaning the
most powerful ones.
And we have them in front of us.
These are first to CNN.
No worries if you don't know some terms here.
We will all cover them in the course.
But the hybrid intelligence system that we're going to build in the course is going to be composed of
CNN which is a convolutional neural network then the variational our encoder.
Then an empty and mixed density network then Arnon Recker a neural network and all these models are
going to be combined together.
And then here comes the best part.
This hybrid combination of State of the art Mole's is going to be optimized by deep neuro evolution
and deep neuro evolution as the brand new era of artificial intelligence.
These are some powerful optimizers which will find the best parameters meaning the best weights of the
neural networks inside your AI.
And the best ones that we have today are genetic algorithms and evolutions strategies and of course
the moral that will build in this course and that will play against India and is optimized by the best
technique of deep neuro evolution which is evolution strategy and more specifically it will be what
we call covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy.
Nor is again.
If you don't get any of that term we will cover everything in the course.
All right.
Now that's you know what a hybrid artificial intelligence is which is a good thing because this is what
this course is all about.
Well let's move on to the next step which is to at least become aware of the pros and cons of building
and using hybrid models.
So the pros are first of all you might guess the most obvious one is that a hybrid model is the most
powerful AI model by far in both the deep reinforcement learning branch and the policy training branch
of artificial intelligence.
And then the other prose is that the hybrid intelligence system that will be built in this course is
based on a fascinating and genius idea which is to build an AI that not only can see and remember and
what we had with the previous single Emile's but this time the hybrid intelligence system will be able
to dream.
And that's a genius idea because indeed we humans when we try to solve a problem a difficult problem.
And you know we have so much trouble solving it.
Well sometimes the solution comes in our sleep.
That happened to me many times that I had a challenging problem to solve.
And suddenly I find a solution next morning when I wake up.
So maybe that's how the inventor of this fool will know which is specificity and added value is to dream
figure it out.
But indeed no one would deny that the idea is pretty fascinating and Glassborow is that the hybrid nature
of this hybrid intelligence system offers of course a large room for improvement because indeed we have
so many morals inside this hybrid intelligence system that we therefore have many hyper parameters to
optimize and therefore we have a lot of optimization to do which offers obviously some large room for
improvement.
So that's for the pros.
But then of course comes the cons and the cons of the hyperintelligent systems.
Of course that they are complex to understand.
But no worries we will do our best to explain them the best way so that at least can have the right
intuition and the right basics and a solid foundations to understand them.
Then the second question of course is that they are very hard to implement.
You'll see what I mean when you see the master code that you will be given in the course.
There are almost 2000 lines of code so don't worry.
We've structured everything so that you can understand it well and not get lost.
And of course the third and most important come we have to remember it is that they are highly computer
intensive to train.
Indeed the full world model takes several weeks on a normal computer to train to get some good results.
And that's of course because you have many miles to train inside the hybrid intelligence system you
have as we saw the V8 variational are encouraged to train.
You have the engine Arnon record a neural network to train and of course in order to get the best and
most performance training you're going to try several evolutions strategies techniques which therefore
takes a lot of time.
So here we go.
That's the pros and cons of the hybrid intelligence systems the hybrid amoral.
You have to be aware of them.
And now that's the case.
Let's finally discover the Fool world model which is the following.
As you can see it is a hybrid intelligence system combining a convolutional neural network that allows
AI to see a variational or encoder that allows AI to dream or record a neural network with mixture density
network that allows ai ai to remember you know like it has memory.
Then you have a controller that allows to review the right actions to play in order to maximize that
reward in an AI environment.
And on top of that you have the powerful optimizers of deep neuro evolution among which the most powerful
ones are.
Evolution strategies.
All right and now I'm going to reveal this step by step structure for this course because in the in-order
to approach this full world not the right way we had to make a perfect structure for this adventure.
And so here we go.
Here is the plan of attack or in other words this step by step structure.
So it's going to be a structure in 10 steps with one Eudemus section per step and the steps are going
to follow the path that is highlighted here in the full world model starting with CNN.
However to understand the convolutional neural network CNN you have to understand first the artificial
neural network and that's why the first step of this plan of attack is to study the artificial neural
network.
And then once you understand the artificial neural network you'll be able to move on to Step Two convolutional
neural network and then we continue our journey and we follow the path the next step as we can see on
this graphic representing the full world model is to study the V8 variational our encounter.
But before you understand the variational or encounter you have to understand first the code itself
which is exactly you go into the step three of this plan of attack and then once you understand our
encoder Well then you will be able to understand variational our encoder which therefore will be the
step 4 of this course structure.
And then now that you get intuition and the theory of the very first important element of the Fool world
model Well it will be time for our very first implementation phase which will be the step five here
in this plan of attack where we will implement the C and the that is a variational or a quarter for
which the first layer is in a deep neural network will be of course a convolutional neural network.
And that's why what we're going to implement is not a general view but a C and D.
And we will implement that with both tons of flow and cast.
And then comes the step 6 which is to move on to the next part of this full world model path which is
the one related to the endian Arnon.
But in order to understand that next step in the process well you will have to understand first the
record and neural network because an engine Arnon is nothing else than a record or a neural network
for which the hidden states are sampled by a mixture density network.
And that's how we get this combination of the NTN Arnon that's why the two next steps after our first
implementation phase are step 6 record neural network and then step 7 the mix density network and then
that's when the second implementation phase will come into play.
Because indeed step 8 will be about implementing the NTN Arnon and we will implement it from scratch
on bison.
And then of course to start understanding how to assemble all this and to understand how we can combine
all these models as a team as a powerful team to accomplish the goal which will be to drive as fast
as well that's why input friends here on the left you have a car.
Well you will have to understand how the whole reinforcement learning environment works.
And that's when step 9 we will understand how to combine all this to play better and better actions
in order to drive faster and faster.
And finally stepped in.
That's going to be of course about how to optimize all these models inside the full world model and
also the will model itself.
And as you understood in discours we're entering the era of the hybrid artificial intelligence systems
optimized by deep neuro evolution.
And here we go.
Step 10 is going to be about deep neuro evolution covering the most powerful techniques which are genetic
algorithms and evolution strategies.
And as I said I can already tell you the deep neural evolution optimizer that we'll use for our world
model.
It is going to be the C M E S optimizer the covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy.
So here we go after these 10 steps.
Well I can tell you that you will be among the early adopters of this new era the era of hybrid intelligent
systems optimized by deep neural evolution and then of course after smashing these 10 steps Well it
will be time to have fun and we humans are going to play against the artificial intelligence too.
For the first time in our courses play a human intelligence versus artificial intelligence competition.
And so we'll have our car then the artificial intelligence which will be of course the full world model
will also have its car.
It will try to drive as fast as possible for 30 seconds.
The faster it drives and you know the further it gets well the maximums it will get.
And then on our side we'll try to drive as fast as possible as well.
Get further than the AI and therefore beat it at car racing.
And here we go.
That's the final run a versus ha.
All right.
And now I have a surprise for you already in this first tutorial.
I'm actually going to show you right now.
This final run that is the final competition of the artificial intelligence versus the human intelligence
and the artificial intelligence that you're about to see is exactly befooled world not all that will
be built along this course so let's do this.
Let's move on to Python and let me show you what you'll get at the end of the course.
So first of all I'll explain of course how to install this idea.
This is the spider idea which will run and build our implementation.
Right now I am on my desktop.
I made this a masterclass for which you will be given in the course and then this will that you have
to subfolder is the inference subfolder which is only the model with some pre-trained weights or parameters
of an artificial intelligence that was trained for days and days on how to race a car and drive as fast
as possible.
And here you have the full code on how to train this artificial intelligence with therefore all the
deep neuro evolution techniques including evolution strategies.
So right now what I want to show you is of course the inference because that's the inference mode that
we'll be able to raise against our AI.
And so in this inference folder you have four python files.
First the environment which is the car racing environment and which defines as you can see the gameplay
for us to be able to play car racing with our own hands so you will literally drive that car which by
the way is an F1 in the car racing environment so actually you will see me drive it right now.
Then you have of course the V8 eat bison foul which builds the whole immoral then next step remember
is the energy and art and moral.
And so that's the fellow that implemented that built the whole architecture of the engine.
Art in and which we will build together.
And then eventually you have of course the Fool world model which combines everything and which is the
model that is a whole artificial intelligence that will drive the car.
And so now I'm not going to make you wait longer.
Let's start the AI versus HCI competition right away.
And to do this we only have to do is select everything here and press command or control us enter to
run.
And so now you're about to see the environment the chorusing environment in a window.
And here we go.
The first car that you see here racing is the artificial intelligence plane.
I'm not doing anything now.
It is playing for 30 seconds.
And as you can see it is trying to get the maximum scores.
This is the score.
The it gets basically the faster it drives the higher will be the score.
And so this is for 30 seconds so it's going to be my turn soon.
Right.
It's already reaching 700 and it's going to reach about 900 because this is the best trained model for
this current environment.
Here we go 900 in something around 10.
And now my turn and I'm not that good but I'm doing OK.
There was no case start.
So this is me playing right now with the arrows on my keyboard.
And so I'm doing OK but I'm not sure I'm going to be able to beat that.
Because it is pretty pretty strong.
But I'm doing quite okay 600 already up getting in the green that's not a good thing.
And 700 OK and 800.
OK.
I'm doing not too bad but here we go.
That was the end for me.
So what were the final results.
The artificial intelligence result was to reach 910 as a total reward you can see that as meters.
And unfortunately the human intelligence represented by myself reached a score of eight hundred and
five in the same number of steps 900 steps which corresponds approximately to 30 seconds.
So I wasn't able to beat that artificial intelligence at car racing.
Maybe you will be able to do it but I doubt it because it is indeed really really strong.
So we'll try again at the end of the course.
I'll practice more and I'll train myself to be that AI and we'll see if this time I can manage to better
Harner the human intelligence.
But still until then enjoy artificial intelligence.